Steps for using Arduino IDE:
Step 1: Get an Arduino board and USB cable
In this tutorial, we assume you're using an Arduino Uno You also need a standard USB cable (A plug to B plug): the kind
you would connect to a USB printer.

Step 2 : Download the Arduino environment
Get the latest version from the download page. When the download finishes, unzip the downloaded file. Make sure
to preserve the folder structure. Double-click the folder to open it. There should be a few files and sub-folders inside.

Step 3 : Connect the board
The Arduino Uno, Mega, Duemilanove and Arduino Nano automatically draw power from either the USB
connection to the computer or an external power supply. If you're using an Arduino Diecimila, you'll need to make sure
that the board is configured to draw power from the USB connection. The power source is selected with a jumper, a
small piece of plastic that fits onto two of the three pins between the USB and power jacks. Check that it's on the two
pins closest to the USB port.
Connect the Arduino board to your computer using the USB cable. The green power LED (labelled PWR) should go on.

Step 4 : Install the drivers
Installing drivers for the Arduino Uno or Arduino Mega 2560 with Windows7, Vista, or XP

Step 5: Launch the Arduino application
Double-click the Arduino application. (Note: if the Arduino software loads in the wrong language, you can change
it in the preferences dialog. See the environment page for details.)

Step 6: Open the blink example
Open the LED blink example sketch: File > Examples > 1.Basics > Blink.

Step 7: Select your board
You'll need to select the entry in the Tools > Board menu that corresponds to your Arduino.

Step 8: Select your serial port
Select the serial device of the Arduino board from the Tools | Serial Port menu. This is likely to be COM3 or higher
(COM1and COM2 are usually reserved for hardware serial ports). To find out, you can disconnect your Arduino board
and re-open the menu; the entry that disappears should be the Arduino board. Reconnect the board and select that serial
port.

Step 9 : Upload the program
Now, simply click the "Upload" button in the environment. Wait a few seconds - you should see the RX and TX
leds on the board flashing. If the upload is successful, the message "Done uploading." will appear in the status bar. 
